As the shroud retreated and the protective wards dissipated, she stood up straight, shoulders back. That was how she would take her first steps into the new world. The pod now fully upright, she strode forward, intending to challenge the world.
// Describe her chamber and give world details
As she stepped out onto the mats, they gave slightly, and Sophia thought she could feel the smooth yet unyielding stone beneath her feet. She took a deep breath, her breasts rising, then falling, as she inspected the bedroom in which she'd lived for several years, now: a wide, circular room with walls of nearly the same substance below the mats. The chamber was warm enough, despite the fact that true temperature controls were currently being researched. Still, the moving air differed from the cycled, sterile air of the pod. Her skin grew chill, and she shivered slightly. She struggled to keep her back utterly straight, but felt more awake.

// She demonstrates other powers, and explores their relative uselessness
She reached forward with one hand, almost casually. The circular chamber had several nooks and small rooms intended only for a single occupant; from the middle of three, Sophia felt something tug against her senses. She closed her eyes for a moment, drawing forth raw power, then shaping it. It conformed to her will, gathering within that which she'd felt before. A line of water flowed through the air from the small chamber, crossing the central chamber (sleeproom/restroom/podroom?) to gather in a sphere which floated before her. The thin line of liquid rippled as it moved, an odd effect that Sophia found came effortlessly to her. Sophia crooked a finger, and the end of the water trail snaked up a tap near the small chamber's exit. It drew forth a powder, which quickly frothed as it moved through the water, snaking along the line to the sphere. Sophia flicked two fingers on her left hand, and a large bubble of foamy liquid separated from the mass. She used it to wash her hair.

// World details

Water-manipulation was a method of Wielding which had fallen out of favor for several decades, considered antiquated now that Aligning was in high demand. The vast majority of Wielders opted to specialize in it, as new Devices were constantly developed. Early breakthroughs had included a number of Devices which could be used to mass produce them, in ever increasing quantities and varieties. Sophia had spent most of her life hearing that there could never be enough Aligners. And she was one of the best.
And that was why she had been chosen for today--the day when everything would change.

// World details, character reflection
Sophia continued to wash herself, cycling the water through a vent, then drawing from another of the taps. Skin exfoliant. As she did, she found herself feeling unusually nostalgic; thoughts and memories of the days which had led her to this point.

She had always been an excellent Aligner. It had come with such ease that Sophia had grown to despise it. Of course, it had been nice for a while--the easy victories, the constant praise. Her parents and instructors had been ecstatic while her peers had moved through the same loop: boldly challenge her, be defeated by her, resent her, ask advice of her, and then worship her.
Somewhere along the way, something had changed. She grew accustomed to their treatment, or they had grown accustomed to her performance. Her competitors for highest marks in training stopped acting as though she could take her place, and instructors mostly grew apathetic, while others had grown openly hostile, as though threatened by her command of the art.
She'd never had any intention of replacing them; she hated the thought of returning to training, even as an instructor. She had hated training, but it was deeper than that. She had despised hated it, even while they'd be praising her. Because it all felt unearned. But she'd been able to tolerate that. And her parents had always spoken of the responsibility of their family, which fell to her. That had helped her to tolerate everything. Her father had spoken of the debt incurred by her talents, the promise to make the most of them; her mother would lock eyes with her, and Sophia would see the hope in her eyes, her unspoken conviction that Sophia would be the one to do their ancestors proud.
But even those feelings had failed when she had attempted Melding.

Everything had come so easily to her. She'd studied elemental manipulation, a largely-defunct form of Wielding, which had been far more interesting to her. That had proven to be a challenge, and her ease with Aligning meant that she had the time for it. And she had gotten quite good at it, in her own humble opinion.
Flush with confidence, she had sought something she found tantalizing: an art related to Aligning, which had thus far eluded her. Melding was the pinnacle of Aligning--painstakingly crafting and guiding the power, forging new designs Devices which could be later replicated. She had been told that she was incapable of Melding, that it was just something you could or couldn't do. Sophia knew that she could.
She'd been wrong. No amount of imitating Melders, studying, or practice had changed that outcome. She'd learned later that it was innate, that it was not Wielding, but something else entirely. And as far as she could tell, using the two together imparted a strange talent, which was of both and neither: the ability to conceive of new Devices.
This was something denied to her. And she refused to accept that--both because she needed the challenge, and because failure was an impossibility to her. And if she couldn't change, then the world would do so, instead.
The trail from there to the Collective seemed obvious. Her family's constant reminders were always would always be fresh in her mind. She remembered their regrets that they had failed the Collective, and had not furthered their shared dream. Sophia had felt plagued by her failures, and found that she had come to share their dream: a new world.
And as she grew to know others committed to their dream, two feelings had emerged: acceptance and unease. These people did not hate her, or revere her. They only required that she remain committed to their dream, and do all that is possible to further it. And embedded with the warmth she felt from them was a fragment of concern, perhaps even fear.
She smothered it, now as she had then, with the sense of belonging and the intoxicating vision. She needed to remember their purpose, set it above her doubts.
The foamy water swirled about her, refreshing sensation and bringing about full wakefulness. She waved, dumping the water down the vent; it flowed through the mesh covering and into the filter, which removed its impurities.
She strode over, nude body still sleek with water, toward to the wall between the middle and right chambers; she pulled linens from the wall rack, then dried herself off. She wrapped one linen about her body and the other about her hair, which was still soaked through. The whole process felt tedious and mundane after her tricks with the water, but she'd grown acclimated after many mornings following this routine. Unfortunately, she hadn't had the knack for air that she had for water, Even in that she was far from an expert although she was by no means a master of that, either. With enough skill, she would be able to draw the moisture from her hair and body, but insufficient finesse would gather liquid from her skin as well. In other nations, it had been a useful tool in torture, but her people had always been determinedly pacifistic, preferred to fight with coin and merchants rather than arms and soldiers.
And that was how she would change the world, too--by way of subversion rather than open conflict.

The middle of the three nooks functioned as a closet; Sophia waved her hand over a panel which protruded slightly from the nearby wall. An open circle illuminated, bright blue, and one long, metallic line extended from the darkened nook, laden with clothing. Sophia sighed, then lightly tapped the blue circle again, and then once more. Each time, the metallic line receded, followed by the quiet whirring of gears, then a different rack of clothing would extend. She plucked several pieces from this one, donning them--silver robes, customary for Aligners, beneath a nondescript brown cloak. The material was light, intended to provide cover from the sands outside; it would be useful for concealing her identity, however.
She moved toward the door, strapping her toolbelt about her waist and tucking her comm device into one of the belt’s empty slots. Sophia considered for a moment, then moved back to the closet and retrieved a sand mask, which would conceal her identity without drawing undo attention. She tied it about her face; the silken cloth felt smooth and comforting.
Sophia had never rejected her purpose, but moments of doubt were not unknown to her. Still, feeling well-protected, made anonymous by the cloak and mask, she could feel her resolve redouble. This would work.
She tapped the panel near the exit, and the stone slab slid left into the wall. Sophia strode forward. This was how she would face the coming world.
Sophia wore her standard fare--a crisp, turquoise blouse of modest cut and close-fit for practical use, as well as more traditional, baggy trousers.
She preferred the type with many pockets, but she typically forbid herself such indulgences; her mother had always been quick to emphasize the importance of appearance. "People start by treating you how you look." One of many lessons which Sophia had set out to change. In the new world, appearances would not matter.
Over her garb, she wore a long cloak--a garment which was once considered representative of her people and their history. In contemporary times, overcloaks made up the wardrobes of the lower class, Grunts, who were largely manual laborers. The diggers, shapers, and scavengers spent most of their time tending to the vast sands beyond the confines of the city; their domiciles spanned the edges of the city, blending into the slums and poorer districts.
 
Today, her overcloak was both an homage to her upbringing and a nondescript disguise. And it would have to be enough; she was already late.
Sophia moved to exit her chamber, raising her palm to a glowing circle on the wall. The door seemed to crumble into sand, grains settling into the divots which lined the doorframe. This was a new Device, currently in advanced stages of testing. Its Fabricator, a foreigner named Saragossa, had an intense enthusiasm for sediment and stone, which Sophia found slightly unsettling, but the two had converged on their shared passion for Devices.
Sophia was always first among those interested in field-testing new Devices; she'd always found such a profound pleasure in witnessing new advancements in magitech Devices; she lived on the cutting edge.
And after today, she would be more than just a bystander, basking in the achievements of others.

As she crossed the threshold, she absent-mindedly tapped the outer panel matching the one inside which had opened the door. The open circle--illuminated to indicate that the door was ajar--dimmed; the door seemed to reconstruct itself out of sand, individual grains climbing atop others as the door gradually grew--first vertically, then horizontally from the bottom.
As each grain returned to its proper place, it seemed to “lock,” becoming more solid as it was bonded to those touching it.
Sophia did the same thing she did each day--pressing her hand against the hardened sand to test its solidity, feeling slightly awed by the intricacy of motion. The settled sand felt both slightly warm and smooth against her palm, as though the surface had been worn flat by an impossible coincidence of erosion.
When the first prototype had been completed and approved, Sophia had spent many hours over several days studying it. Her coworkers had grumbled--new designs meant more time spent dissecting new systems and runes, memorizing them for the eventuality of restoring them, after they hit the market. Overtime was unpaid by the Workshop, but was also mandatory; Aligners’ competitive market viability was the concern of each individual, so new designs would be well-known to all, inevitably if gradually.

Sophia’s secret shame was that she’d have spent her time studying the Device, regardless of any obligation, even to herself.
But she was allowing herself to grow distracted again; it was past time to leave.
Hurrying down the stone corridor, Sophia was forced to squeeze past several groups of Aligners or other skilled workers as they prepared to disembark. Deliberate gaps in the stonework allowed spots of sunlight to peek through, although no sound from outside was audible. The corridor was vacuum-sealed by some means Sophia didn’t fully understand; she’d never had an opportunity to examine the Device responsible, and some Aligners of more advanced age preferred to maintain a monopoly on designs which were no longer in active production.
Sophia rounded the corner to the next hallway--almost colliding with the Maester of Shelter, a kindly old man whose eyelids seemed to have atrophied halfway-shut many years ago.
“Careful there, Diana!” He croaked, mouth curling into a slight grin. “You need to watch where you’re going, young lady.”
“My name is Sophia, as I’ve made clear many times prior, sir.”
“Yes, yes, Diana; just try to be more careful in the future.” He moved around her with surprising agility, which didn’t seem very safe for someone nearly blind.
Sophia pushed aside her annoyance; he’d been like all the others: quick to dismiss or forget her. She was surprised he even recognized her.
	Well, he would know who she was, after today.

	This hall led to the lobby, which was roughly the dimensions of her own room. With arched ceilings that peaked around the height of three tall men, the lobby doubled as a waystation for the Tunnel--a rippling, silent vortex which occupied the room’s entire right side. A small group--some standing in line while others sat on nearby couches, placed there for such a purpose--chatting and making final preparations before they departed to begin the day.
	Sophia strode toward the wall of wind, discernible by slight distortions in the air. Of the five lines of people, she selected the one second from the left; it was populated solely by the few of her fellows in the Ergastiri (ΕΡΓΑΣΤΗΡΙ). As she approached, they pointedly turned their backs, continuing to converse amongst themselves.

	That was fine with her. She had no need of them, anyway.
	Through the wind wall, she could see a blurred figure raise his arm, then be yanked away along one of the metallic lines, clearing the loading zone for whoever was next.
The others weren’t paying attention, apparently more interested in their conversation than transportation. Sophia sniffed, rolling her eyes, then moved smoothly around them. She held up her amulet to the wall of wind; a small window, roughly her height and width, formed in the barrier, the distortions in the air becoming slightly less distinct. She stepped through it, and felt it seal behind her.
Within the wall of winds, the air churned and burst, buffeting her slightly. Sophia held her overcloak tightly as it threatened to rip itself free of her body. She felt a slight thrumming from the amulet in her hand as it began to vibrate, resonating with the gravline. She raised it, and a protective forcefield sprang up around her as she was pulled into the air along one of the long, metallic lines. 
She floated forward, parallel to the line as it angled upwards, leading through one of the holes in the wall. Her field of vision tunneled--and then she was treated to the sight of the gravline network.
The massive system of lines covered the city, individual lines weaving between, around, above, and beneath one another. Important or oft-visited buildings often had several different lines of metal leading away and toward them, connecting the structures like veins and arteries dead-ending in organs of the city’s body. Each line was encased in a cylindrical tunnel for safety, slightly distorting both the glint of sunlight on the metallic lines and bubble speeding their passengers through each tunnel as they sped through each tunnel, a passenger within each.
Supposedly there was a matching network beneath certain parts of the city for distribution of parts and goods, but Sophia had never seen it.
As she sped over and through the city, Sophia caught sight of the central administrative building--a spiral structure massive both horizontally and vertically. It was visible from far away, serving as a beacon for travelers lost in the desert. The long, colored banners from foreign embassies draped down the sides of the building, their bold colors and sigils demanding attention. She found the sight transfixing, for a moment.
Then the gravline dipped behind a building, and the moment ended. In a few seconds, she began to slow as she approached her destination: the Ergastiri. 

	As her bubble dissipated, Sophia readied herself, throwing her overcloak over her shoulders to reveal her uniform. She dropped the three feet gracefully to the ground, then strode forward to vacate the landing zone, exiting the Chamber of Departure, then working through the hallways around to the Hub.
	The Hub itself was a circular chamber roughly two hundred feet in diameter. A small hallway ran the circumference of the Hub, with doors leading to each of the five Departments--Conflux, where Devices were conjoined to experiment with different effects; Theory, which focused on efforts to study Devices abstractly, both philosophically and in terms of market distribution and application; Recombination, which experimented with the interactions of Sets from other Devices; and Testing, which focused on experimentation to ensure eligible Devices are ready to be marketed.
	As she walked into the proper Hub, Sophia was greeted by the low murmurs of conversation typical of the social zone. The circular area around which the access tunnel ran was divided into two parts: the Cluster--a wide, social area--and Logistics--a conference rooms for teams to convene.
	The Cluster was, as usual, occupied by Aligners either off-duty or taking breaks. Some were strewn across the furniture at the edges of the room, while others gathered at the high, standing tables nearer the center, ordering food and drink from attendants patrolling the room.
	Sophia had always hated wading through crowds, despite the fact that she’d needed to do it every day for the last few years; she took the usual route: around the edge of the left side, not too close to the wide-chairs--which were almost always occupied--then cut toward the opposite wall at a roughly forty-five degree angle. Some time ago, she’d nudged the tables further apart slightly there, which made it wide enough for three-abreast, which meant even if two attendants passed by, she’d still have enough room.
	As she approached the twin doors to Logistics, she nearly stumbled over the legs of a wide-chair occupant, who had decided to stretch at that particular moment. She locked eyes with him as she stepped over them, and he retracted, slumping slightly. The nerve of some people.
	Sophia knocked once as a courtesy--Mother would approve--and then turned the handle and pushed forward into the room.

	The Central Hub’s two halves were of equal size, which made Logistics look deserted by comparison with the Cluster. The disparity between their respective layouts contrasted the two rooms further; where the Cluster had a few dozen pieces of more modest furniture, Logistics had a single, massive table which had been fitted to the room. The table, which had been a gift to the Guild of Aligners in their infancy, had been Chiseled by the now-vestigial Guild of Carvers and presented as a show of goodwill.
	About the arching side of the table sat 24 chairs, four of which were currently occupied by members of her team: Cyrus, Alena, Goran, and Host of the Nightmare-sanMiklos. This may be the first time I’ve been last to arrive…
	Sophia stepped up to a podium, which had been added to the table afterward along with a few other Devices to supplement it. Inset atop the podium was a tablet of smooth stone, as well as a small quartz cylinder, only the flat top of which was visible. She raised her amulet and pressed it against the quartz; both began to glow, faintly. The flat slab of stone began to ripple as it was Chiseled into a slightly different shape. Sediments began to break into tiny bits, which then moved to coalesce into symbols, both words and numbers, before settling back into smooth solidity.
	“My apologies for the delay, we’ll begin reviewing our assignments for the day.” Her voice was made slightly louder while her amulet was linked to the quartz.
	“It’s not like having an extra five minutes to lounge has ever killed anyone,” came a reply, slightly fainter than her own voice, from Host of the Nightmare-sanMiklos. He’d said it offhandedly, but she’d long since learned to tolerate his displays of mild insubordination.
	Patience wasn’t natural to her, but it had been one of the costs of reaching this point.
	“Today,” she continued, glancing over her team’s briefing, “we will be working on several cases across the city.” Miklos is as expected. Alena looks worn but resolute, which means she’s likely struggling with personal matters. Goran seems slightly intimidated already, and we haven’t even discussed details. And Cyrus--she paused. He looks like he intends to take my position from me. I’m a little impressed; I have been pushing him harder than usual, lately. Perhaps some of that is deserved.
	She had known them all to some degree before they’d been assigned to her team, or before she’d even led a team, for that matter. Cyrus stood out most in her mind. They had met early during election for Alignment training--at least, that’s when she noticed him. They were roughly the same age and from similar backgrounds, so it was likely their paths had crossed earlier, but nothing had left an impression.
	During aptitude assessment, Cyrus had competed with her more tenaciously than anyone else before or since, and that was when she’d been coming to the height of her abilities. His aptitude score had nearly surpassed hers several times. Eventually, she’d felt compelled to seek him out and demand if he was mocking her.
	He had been sitting, quietly reading outside, and she had loomed over him, struggling to keep her hands from balling into fists. His hair, which had a slight tinge of purple in its black, slightly obscured his eyes. They were an odd violet which seemed to be bleeding into maroon.
	He had said, “I’m just trying to see what I can do.” He raised the still-open book, gesturing slightly with it. “What does it matter to you?”

	Sophia paused, taken aback by the memory, and turned back to the briefing.
	“Miklos--you and Alena will be paired, and will be covering several matters for private clients, many of whom Alena will be familiar with. I will forward further details to your amulets.” Alena seemed slightly shaken, but Miklos simply mouthed the last sentence back at her.
	“Goran, there are some more rural repair jobs required by an outer district some of which will involve the underground., None of them should be difficult, but I will be checking in later if you run into problems. I will forward further details to your amulet.” He looked relieved, and nodded confidently.
	“Cyrus...” She paused, turning back to meet his eyes, “You will be investigating a potential problem of public concern.” He looks prepared to take on anything I could possibly throw at him. It will be interesting to see how he handles this.
	“I will be working alongside you, but I have a commitment of greater importance, first.” She paused. “I am expecting this to be something easily resolved, but I want to hear your assessment, so await any action until I arrive.” He blinked, obviously not quite sure how to take that. He probably thinks I’m just toying with him by asking him to wait as well as giving him a worthless assignment. She scoffed slightly, disguising it as a sigh.
	“I’ll have the solution in hand by the time you arrive--assuming your errand is quick, of course.” His tone was respectful, yet also challenging, and his eyes never wavered. He only saw determination. 
	That’s unexpected. Perhaps I’m being too tolerant of insubordination. Well, let’s see what you can handle, Cyrus. What you’ll be facing there… I don’t think it can be solved. Not even by me.
	She paused again as they waited her to end assignments as she always did. Instead, she turned and met each of their eyes in turn. Why do I still think and plan as though I will still be in command of this team, tomorrow? They were growing familiar to each other, and there were roots of insubordination she felt driven to correct. Maybe I’ll have a new team in the future. “ Let’s get started, everyone.”


	The Cluster was beginning to clear out as Sophia’s team moved out through the doors, hugging the straight wall as they moved toward Departure. Some of the other Aligners were moving in the opposite direction, toward the Foundry, likely to procure equipment for specific assignments. Another team had been lounging near the doorway, and moved to occupy Logistics as quickly as possible; a few other teams stood around, stamping in frustration. Initiative begets success. Father is fond of that aphorism.
	Sophia moved around the crowd as gracefully as possible, a few steps ahead of her teammates. A few had gone the opposite direction along the wall, aiming for the other hallway. Cyrus was the only one trying to keep pace with her.
	“Why the cloak, leader?” He asked as he noticed her glancing backward at him. His voice cut through the shuffling and conversation around them, and she held his glance longer than she’d intended.
	“You’re even more a sandling than I am,” she replied, turning to continue forward. “It shouldn’t be too unusual to you.”
“I need to go to the Outskirts, near the Sands.”
	“What for? Visiting family?” You’re trying too hard to sound casual, Cyrus.
	“An investigation,” she said loudly, not turning around. “The details of which,” she continued, trying to keep the irritation from her tone, “are no concern of yours.”	“It will likely be routine, but it may take slightly longer, if that is necessary.” This time, she did glance backwards at him, briefly as she paused. “There are certain responsibilities required for leadership.” None that you are likely to discover. Even if, somehow, we’re working together in the future. Not if I have any say in the matter.
Cyrus remained silent as they moved into the hallway, then around and into the Chamber of Departure. The sight that greeted them was a repurposed warehouse, roughly four stories tall, with spiral staircases in each of the four corners which led to one of several chain-link walkways. Near the entrance, the walkways were largely occupied by support and maintenance staff, while the walkways opposite the entrance had many sets of lines leading to different areas of the city.
As the group migrating from the Cluster started bunching up near the entrance, teams began to disperse, most members sharing a final word, then moving toward the stairs leading to whichever line corresponding to their destination.
Sophia caught a glance of Miklos and Alena, moving together through the crowd. Well, at least Alena looks like she’s in a slightly better mood, probably at Miklos’ expense. The two of them moved forward, out of her sight, their focuses unwavering. I hope you two can manage until when next we meet.
Cyrus stepped up beside her, and Sophia waited for him to start moving toward his destination, as well. He didn’t. She turned, glancing over, and found him studying her intently.
“I hope your excursion isn’t excessively involved.” The intensity of his eyes pierced through her, and she found herself growing tense. Why is he acting like this? Does he know something? Or am I merely swept up in living such a momentous day, overanalyzing everything? “Otherwise, I’ll need to start without you.”
He turned, striding through the crowd--away from her and toward the line leading to the central administration building.
Sophia straightened her back, crossing her arms as she waited until the rest of her team had departed. Most of the crowd had dispersed, gathering near the lines to await their turns. She moved toward a nearly-abandoned line, halfway across the second walkway. She pulled her overcloak forward to conceal her uniform, fastened it closed, and then raised her amulet. The wind wall before her thinned slightly; Sophia stepped through.
And then she was speeding across the skyline toward the outer district.

	Visiting the outer districts was a bit of a chore, as none of the lines from the Ergastiri led there directly, which meant stopping to change routes at a few waystations. The transitions just make the disparity obvious. It’s as though I’m coming from a completely separate world. The buildings grew more plain and less maintained, the further one ventured from the city center. The quality of materials decreased and the discoloration of grime grew more prevalent as palaces were replaced by ramshackle huts. Even the transportation lines became increasingly suspect with the apparent discoloration of rust creeping around the seams where metal met metal.
	Sophia dropped from the line’s end into a dilapidated building. Gaps in the rotting wood made the structure seem like the site of a shootout, and some the planks underfoot groaned with each step, threatening to collapse. Disgraceful.
	Sophia raised her hood, then pushed open the exit, which swung feebly outward on one hinge.
	This far out, the Sands threatened to encroach on the edges of civilization. Paths were demarcated only by frequency of traffic, and most buildings nearby were little more than stockpiled shambles scavenged from thrice-used wood and clay bricks. The wind howled fiercely out here, scattering sand into every visible crevice. There were no Devices for protection or comfort to be found in the Outskirts.
	It feels like I hate this place a little more every time I return. How did I manage to tolerate ten years here as a child? Cyrus’ comment floated on the edge of her mind, at that thought. Maybe I should try to see my parents again. There’s not too much time left.
	The streets were largely deserted; laborers and scavengers had likely departed by now. A few vagabonds were strewn about the streets, most of them seeking shelter from both heat and bluster, but they kept their eyes downcast as Sophia passed them. None of them even have the spirit to beg for scraps, out here--and the people here have already hardened their hearts,
	Along the street--if it can even be called that--shops were largely indistinguishable from residences. Some of the plaques near doors would’ve served as identification, once, but most were either eroded or displaced by sand and wind.
	As was the case in other settlements in the Outskirts, Sophia could identify the town pub by size alone. Drink and similar indulgences were more popular in these parts, a cheap means of numbing the senses; in the past, when the Outskirts were more like the frontier and less like slums, many pubs had grown large.
	The Second Oasis was a two-story building which once had aspirations for a third. Many of the exterior wooden support beams had been eaten-through from the inside by sandlings, and were kept upright by lengths of hardened clay which had been bonded via adhesives for support. Sophia strode up the steps to the entrance, then grasped the knob. As she twisted, pulling the door open, the knob nearly came free from the door.
	Inside, the pub was largely abandoned, the effect enhanced by inconsistent lighting--sunlight through half-covered windows and cool little glow lamps with frills. Fire hazards. As was typical of pubs in the Outskirts, the bar was positioned opposite the entrance to allow barkeeps to watch the door. This one doesn’t seem like the type to stay vigilant. In fact, everyone I’ve come across here just seems lethargic. The barkeep was a man of average height, with a slightly stocky build and a shaved head. As Sophia absent-mindedly closed the door behind her, she watched the barkeep finish polishing a glass, reach beneath the bar to retrieve a bottle, fill the same tumbler with the dark liquid, and then slam it back in a smooth motion.
	He then began to clean and polish the same glass once more.
	Such conduct… How unprofessional.
	Sophia scanned the room, which was largely vacated as was proper at this hour of the day. Most locals, men and women, would be attending to their personal responsibilities; if any were of sufficient wealth to lounge, they would be wealthy enough to do so privately. Near the center of the room, a group of three men sat around a low table, discussing their work over food. Off to Sophia’s right, two men sat with their backs to her, hunched intently over papers spread thickly over the surface of their table; one was gulping down dark liquid from a mug while simultaneously waving to the barkeep for another round, and the other was rifling through the notes excitedly, his drink forgotten off to the side. At the far end of the bar sat a cloaked figure clutching a cup with clear liquid in one hand and what appeared to be crumpled parchment in the other. That’s the one.
	Walking briskly, Sophia paused for an instant to glance over the shoulders of the two men sitting off to the right, consumed by curiosity. She caught a glimpse of common numbers, letters, and symbols intermixed with nonsense runes which were completely unknown to her. What? A foreigner? And squatting in the Outskirts, of all places?
	A shiver seemed to run down the spine of the man rifling through the papers, and he froze. He turned slightly, head cocked as though listening intently; the corners of his mouth turned upwards in the beginnings of a smile. She started. His clothing isn’t exactly Outskirts-standard. He’s got an overcloak like most of us here, but he’s wearing dark greens and furs underneath. Such a strange man…
	Sophia did her best to feign ignorance, turning sharply and nearly colliding with the barkeep as he brought over another round for the Foreigner’s companion. She stepped around him smoothly--shooting a halfhearted glare in his direction--then continued moving, head held high, toward her contact at the bar.
--Rewrite--	
She slid into a seat next to him; he continued staring into his drink rather than acknowledging her or the barkeep, as he moved back into the position to which he’d grown accustomed.
	Her confidant eyed Sophia as she sat down--then tossed the clear liquid back. Close as she was, she could smell its pungency, which meant it wasn’t water, as she’d hoped.
	The man hissed through his teeth at the burn, then drew in a deep breath.
	“Damn the Circle, but here we are.”
	“Orders. Now.” The firmness of her tone surprised even herself. She realized that she was intent on meeting Cyrus’ challenge, just as much as she had grown ever more excited about this day.
	“You… You know what this means...right?” The informant’s voice hung atypically, as though he struggled not to waver or stutter.
	Sophia seized the note from his clenched hand--balling a first when his remission wasn’t sufficiently prompt. His eyes caught hers, and he started. His drink clattered against the bar even as his death-grip atrophied.
	Sophia grasped the note, wrenching it from his fingers.
	At first, he resisted; but as their eyes meet, something broke--he succumbed to a weakness familiar only to himself; he bowed his head in shame as she tugged the note free.
	“Daughter Who Bears Both Dagger and Timepiece,” the note began, “the first step toward True Awakening has been prepared.
	“When you arrive at the Realization of Equity, bearing observation as your base hosts confusion, your eyes will be required and your hands will be restricted. Our truth will render all sins negligible as you serve to cast our seeds beyond The Field. Surpass the Circle’s Own Speed.”
	The text was scawled hastily, as though in a single stroke of ink.
And that was all it said.
Is this all I am to the Collective? Or... 
Sophia was surprised to find that precious note now crumpled in her fist.
Her informant waved toward the barkeep, then pointed downward at his empty glass. He still refused to look at her.
“So you’ve seen what it says.” His intense tone, full of despair, did not imply a question.
--Rewrite Section End--
“This oblique language...why? And they’re-- telling me to do nothing?!” Sophia demanded, tension mounting.
Her informant slid his tumbler forward into the waiting hand of the barkeep, who refilled it and then slid it back. Liquid slopped over the edge slightly against the man’s hand as he caught it. He started to raise the glass to his lips--Sophia caught his arm, pressing it back down. No resistance... something is off with this man, or perhaps the situation.
“This is the sum of my instructions? Do nothing,” she asked flatly.
Her informant said nothing; he raised his glass, as though toasting an invisible entity.
Her temper rose; Sophia began to rise, then sat back down heavily, as though crushed beneath an unbearable weight.
She raised a finger, motioning to the barkeep. He rolled his eyes, then sidled over to her. Sophia pointed to the glass her informant was downing.
“What he’s having.”
“And another,” the informant said, cupping his hand to mouth to stifle a burp.
The barkeep set a second tumbler beside the first, the tipped the bottle, filling both. What am I doing?! The world is ending, and here I sit, drinking the day away. I just can’t take it anymore. I came out here so that they could tell me to do nothing? What am I to them?
“To the beginning of our dream!” the informant announced, raising his glass. Sophia clinked hers against his, feeling slightly dazed. He downed his glass in another gulp; Sophia took a sip of hers, then struggled to keep herself from cringing in disgust. She had never liked alcohol. Father always said that liquor was for wastrels.
Even so, she found herself caught between the idealism and confusion of the moment--and tossed the drink back. This time, her face contorted at the taste.
Behind her, the entrance door clicked shut; Sophia glanced over her shoulder to inspect the newcomer. As they looked at each other, he froze, his hand still upraised to close the door. He looked away, then moved to sit at the table nearest the door.
“So...” The informant continued--I’m not here to socialize, I need to leave!--“How did things look?”
“What?” Sophia asked distractedly, glancing backward. “I was told to keep things subtle, so I assigned one of my team to inspect it.”
“I was told that someone advanced was supposed to give the all-clear… Maybe someone else took care of it...” He slurred the last few words, slumping back onto his stool, leaning against the bar.
Sophia whirled on him and--almost losing her balance--pressed a hand against the bar, as covertly as possible. Over from the table with the two men, she heard a faint chuckle; she glared in their direction, as though to smote them with the heat in her eyes, but both were assiduously bent over the notes, their backs to her.
 “You must be mistaken. Those were not the orders I received,” she growled, turning back to the informant. “I didn’t make any mistakes, because I don’t make mistakes.”
His eyes lingered on her hand pressed against the bar, and then up her arm. Her uniform, which was already form-fitting, clung even more tightly from the heat-induced perspiration. Stop sizing me up, you fool! Everything I’ve worked for might be ruined because of incompetent people like you! His eyes traced around her partly-visible cleavage, then settled on her face.
He drew back as his eyes met hers.
Sophia turned slowly, so as to not risk losing her balance again, and then headed toward the door.
The hooded figure rose from his table near the exit. As she moved to step around him, he caught her arm in a surprisingly firm grip.
“So this is what you’ve come to, Sophia,” the stranger said, gripping her arm more tightly.
“I don’t have time for this--” Sophia began sharply.
She cut off as, with his other hand, the stranger reached up and lowered his hood. His face grew more weathered every time she’d seen him, and his hair was greyer than she remembered.
“Father...”
“Imbibement at midday, meeting with suspicious men far from home and work… Is this what you’ve done with the life we’ve given you?” His tone was hard and disparaging, and she could feel the rage coalescing near the base of her neck.
But his eyes were desperate, pleading with her for something she couldn’t recognize.
“I’m here, Father, to do our family proud. To make amends for the regrets you and Mother have passed down--”
“Those were our regrets,” he cut her off, voice quiet and intense, “not yours.
“This wasn’t what I wanted for you,” he whispered, tears in his eyes. “My precious daughter… You have so many gifts, so many wonderful things you can share with the world, things which no one else can.
“Don’t be so eager to discard them, just so--”
“I am going to fix this world, Father.” It was her turn to cut him off. “It has grown warped and misshapen. The privileged pray on the weak and vulnerable; every act serves only to spread their vile contamination. This system must be burned away, to create fertile ground for the new order to come.
“And I will be remembered for my contributions--for our family’s contributions!--in the days to come.”
“In my youth, I was driven by the same passion.” His voice was cold with anger. “But then I found your mother, and I realized that there was more to this world than wanton destruction in the name of ‘justice.’
“I came to tell you that you’re making a mistake. Some choices can never be undone.”
Their eyes locked, and she saw conviction reflected in his eyes--the same fervor she’d inherited.
She turned away, wrenching her arm from her father’s grasp. “I don’t make mistakes, Father.” Just as you taught me.
She strode from the bar without looking back, making for the central administrative building with as much haste as possible.

The central administrative building towered over her as she zipped along the line toward it. From all appearances, it was like any other day; no flames flickered in windows, no smoke leaked from the tower, and she could see no additional security.
Perhaps I was too antsy, after all.
Her bubble swerved around a tight corner, then dipped below a high footbridge which connected buildings on either side of her, hurtling over the bustling streets leading up to her destination. Roughly a dozen lines leading from areas all over the city ran parallel to hers, all of which deposited travelers into the administrative building’s Hub: a massive room with wide, sloping ceilings with large windows cut into them, through which sunlight streamed down. Seven desks were arrayed about the edges of the room; Sophia immediately made her way toward security.
Members of the crowd hurried around each other, each person assuming their business was of utmost importance. Sophia made her way toward the security desk, reaching for her amulet to identify herself. The attendant, a young woman around her own age, eyed her suspiciously, and Sophia realized her overcloak was still covering her uniform. She quickly unbound the front clasps, then threw the cloak over her shoulders, revealing both her uniform and her amulet, which she raised toward the attendant.
“I’m an Aligner, here to follow-up on the Device investigation,” she said, unsuccessfully trying to curb the impatience in her tone.
“We already have someone--” The attendant began condescendingly.
“Yes, I know. He’s a member of my team. I’m here to check up on him.”
The attendant glared daggers at her, and Sophia met her gaze. I don’t have time for your nonsense.
The woman scoffed, then whirled around and began leading her toward the main elevators located near the rear of the Hub.
The attendant rotated the tiny, radial dial to indicate their destination, and a massive gear positioned horizontally over the entrance displayed the elevator’s current floor.
Sophia tried to control her anxiety as the overhead gear began grinding, the elevator approaching their floor. She glanced over at the attendant, who stood patiently, eyes wandering, with a slight smile on her face. She seems to be enjoying inconveniencing me. Sophia tried to force calm upon herself, straightening her shoulders and adopting an imperious expression.
Internally, her anger toward her father and her panic continued to swirl and churn. Am I unable to stamp it out? Is my commitment insufficient?
The gear completed its last turn, and the stone platform rose into view, level with the ground and suspended by a combination of water pressure and wind.
The wall of wind, which served to prevent children and clumsy fools from falling into the elevator shaft, grew translucent. Sophia and the attendant stepped inside, then flipped a switch on the wall to indicate that all passengers had boarded.
The elevator descended toward the basement’s main conference chamber, wind decreasing as the water pressure served to stabilize the stone platform.
It was only a few levels, but to Sophia, it seemed as though they were descending into a hell beneath the Sands. The attendant whistled an obnoxious tune as the wall become less solid, and the two of them moved out into the basement.
The basement of the administrative building was not akin to those of the Outskirts, to which Sophia was accustomed. Although it was cramped, lacking the spacious ceilings of many buildings on the surface, the floor was carpeted a rich burgundy. The walls were lined with silks of a luscious green, and many works of art lined the hallway, donations from foreign craftsmen. Lines of gold trailed atop the green, separating each great work.
Sophia strode down the hallway, her long legs outpacing the attendant, who was forced to jog every few steps to keep up.
The hallway led to a set of grand double-doors, with a passageway arching around on either side. Sophia had heard these led to smaller conference rooms, for smaller diplomatic meetings, but they were of no present concern to her.
Through the double doors, the conference chamber was ostentatiously large. Concentric circles of desks filled the chamber, broken only by three sets of stairs--two leading to the smaller conference rooms, and one which Sophia stood atop. She was taken aback by the sheer scope of the room.
All three sets of stairs led down to a circular stage with gold carpeting, from which a speaker could address everyone in the room. There, at its center, Sophia could see Cyrus, kneeling before a tremendous object--a sphere, twice the height of an average man, comprised of interweaving strands of metal and many lights of differing colors which flickered ominously in sequence.
Sophia tried to retain some grace as she dashed down the stairs, two by two.
As she reached the bottom, she nearly slipped on stray pieces of parchment, which had been scattered haphazardly around Cyrus. To the side, she spotted the case which Cyrus always kept slung over his shoulder--where he kept many thickly-bound bunches of parchment: his prized notes, which had now been scattered in clumps around him, bindings ripped out.
As she watched him, he muttered to himself, raising one of his Device sketches for inspection, then turned to dig through one of the piles of parchment with his other hand. She strode forward, nudging a pile of parchment aside, approaching the Device.
It was unlike anything she’d ever seen before, its complexity orders of magnitude beyond everything she’d ever repaired or studied. The intricacy of every individual component was breathtaking, and the genius of their resultant sum was terrifying.
This...is beyond me. Her mind snapped into focus, and she felt a thrill. This is what I’ve been waiting for: a real challenge.
Sophia circled the Device, inspecting it from every angle.
Refractory amplification--the effect of this is entirely dependent on whichever Device with which it’s interwoven. 
But it’s interwoven with nearly every other Device, including at least two others with similar effects.
She moved around, following the connections, using her index finger to trace the flows.
This Device seems to stabilize energy constraints, distributing the stress across multiple components.
With every subsequent Device, her admiration grew. Intimidation spread throughout her body, and the intensity of her determination grew in proportion. Cyrus set aside his notes and his sketches. He seemed bewildered, and disheartened.
Someday, Father, you will see what has been done, here. And the role I played in it.
Sophia continued to move, searching for the trigger while she analyzed the effects. She saw from the corner of her eye that Cyrus had noticed her, and was staring, dumbfounded. Sophia continued without sparing him another thought.
This one governs the shape of output. Its initial framework echoes other Devices I’ve seen with spherical areas of effect, but since it’s connected to multiple amplification matrixes for distribution… Several concentric spheres, perhaps? And there’s a vertical offset, here, and that’s connected to every Device except one.
And this... seems to be the core.
Sophia extended her hand toward it eagerly, struggling to intuit its nature. This is it--the reason why I’ve had this ability, why I can grasp the connections ephemeral to my peers: so I can steal the nature of this source, and bring about the reality I desire.
Her vision went black. Screams of terror reverberated within her skull. She had no body; the bright light of her own essence was all that remained. Through it, she somehow tasted broken promises, and a reality inverted against its makers--then the perception shattered as glass, becoming sand which was carried away by the wind.
She managed a few steps, retreating from the Device, before collapsing.
“This,” she croaked, “will end everything.”
Cyrus stared at her, baffled. “What--”
He was interrupted by a thundering of footsteps from either side of the chamber. Dozens of figures filed in, garbed in titanite armor, with granite overcloaks. They spread about the room’s perimeter, each equidistant from peers on either side.
This has been rehearsed, part of her mind noted idly, even as the rest of her reeled. She felt entangled by the horror she’d just experienced, and it suffocated her consciousness.
More footsteps followed. These were controlled, cautious.
Twelve people, appearances more regal than their predecessors, entered from each side of the chamber--six men, six women.
Two armored figures near each door grasped each handle, then nodded to each other. With a hard shove, all doors leading from the chamber ground closed, sealing everyone present within.
The twelve nobles moved down the stairs, and out onto the golden, central stage. The atmosphere was one of tremendous joy and self-exaltation.
“Our initial detonator has failed,” one of nobles said, pressing thick spectacles further up the bridge of her nose. “But the power of the Disruption has been validated.”
“Bring about the future we desire,” a tall, bald man intoned. “For this will be the era of our dreams!”
The spectacled-woman approached the Device, laying a hand on it.
Cyrus cried out; the nobles’ armored guardians thrust fists into the air, shouting an incoherent enthusiasm; smiles spread across the faces of the men and women around her; Sophia crumpled to the floor--curling into a ball as the tears she tried to repress began to stream down her face.
Time ceased to exist.
