# Kyanós

Literally translated: “Lapis Lazuli”

 A center of commerce, innovation, and trade located in a vast desert and next to a river. Characterized by its advanced technology and cutting edge use of runes.

Analogous to real-world Petra (?) or Egypt in its golden days. A melting pot of cultures. In its prime, was home to hundreds of thousands and the largest city in the world. Kyanos was originally founded by a tribe of nomadic desert warriors on a river that runs down from the nearby mountains, called the [Giant’s Teeth](The%20Giant%E2%80%99s%20Teeth%2085d785a62a6c46f3890b5c364a46bb75.md). It was originally built around a church dedicated to Sophia, their mother principality and the source of all wisdom. Kyanos became a center of trade between Eastern spice merchants, northern clothiers, southern farmers, and western mathematicians.

After a mysterious stranger introduced the city to the magic of runescript, the ability to command the elements with symbols and power, the city became an unprecedented triumph of humanity. The city quickly stratified into those who could serve as a source of power and those who could direct it, with the resultant bastards who could do a little of both and neither fully effectively being shunned.

Buildings

- Ergastiri (lit. “Workshop”): foundries out of which Runic Builders operated. Largely privately-owned. Studied the creation of Devices, the Runic Language, and interactions between Devices. Supported by robust supply chains.

Questions:

- Which types of stone would have been used for construction?
    - Limestone is my first thought.
- How did Devices and Exousia technology develop?
- Desert tribesmen
-