# Glossary

- Principality: an embodiment of a core, divine and human characteristic. Only one can exist per characteristic at a time.
    - Aeon
- Ascension: the process by which a human becomes a Principality.
- [Exousia](Worldbuilding%20af7a4b31ec684e5e8bd4d886b4f02409/Metaphysics%20a2912e62db9f400387ab5e29d44c39c1/Exousia%20#WIP%20b40a09035f7d4d2e93c9560be6706010.md): the most primitive form of energy, drives all life in both nature and humans. Present in nature and generated by the soul.  Has different physical properties depending on the source.
    - Tribal Exousia: when in conjunction with Zonic Exousia, allows for the changing of the body.
    - Zonic Exousia: allows for regeneration
    - Kyric Exousia: allows for temporal manipulation
- Runic Builder: a human profession that is a cross between programming and mechanical engineering. Harnesses Exousia by way of Runes, a system of symbols intrinsic to nature.
    - Follows a structure of formal (?) logic.
- Device: a discrete object that uses Exousia in conjunction with runes. Examples include sand doorways and aerial transit systems.
    - Different types of Exousia in conjunction with different runes in conjunction with different materials elicit different effects.
    - In the Kuklos Anankes era, the Collective has propagandized the populace to regard Devices as demonic, beyond human understanding, and the cause of the Disruption (the forbidden fruit).
- Ampoule: an exousia battery. Becomes necessary after the time-skip.
- **Key Events**
    - [The Disruption](Worldbuilding%20af7a4b31ec684e5e8bd4d886b4f02409/Events%20&%20Timeline%20404ad6ccc7a04f5096e8b2cef3bbc29b/The%20Disruption%20#WIP%201ca3b38f76bb4412a094ce216c73bff8.md): an event that radically alters Kyanos’ ecology, exousia, and kills most of its population. The inciting event of the game. Brought about by the Collective for the purpose of bringing about a series of Ascensions.
        - Actually a combination of events: one that changed the land and another that froze time at the very center of the city, intended to preserve the Collective members there for their eventual Ascension.
    - The Enlightenment: shortly before the Disruption, an unknown figure visited the Kyanos and shared intimate knowledge of metaphysics with them. Unknown to all but a few.
- **Characters**
    - Party Members:
        - [Cyrus](Characters%206c458aea434e4c48a1777cf02b99de58/Cyrus,%20the%20Seeker%20cd3bdea2c59c420ca0e474dc71320fe0.md): the main character of the story. Born in the distant past, he was trapped at the center of the Disruption after being mistakenly assigned to fix the Device responsible, and he awakens in the present to a completely new world—a different time with a different culture, having lost everyone he once knew. He is quiet, focused, and pragmatic to a fault. Struggling to find a place in the new world, haunted by memories and loss.
            - Likenesses:
                - Combat: Tidus (FFX), Garrison (Battle Chasers), Auron (FFX)
            - Combat Paradigms: Time Mage, Single-Target Debuffer, Sweeper
        - [Vaughn](Characters%206c458aea434e4c48a1777cf02b99de58/Vaughn,%20the%20Hawk%200e5842041f0045b68e524d487e8408f3.md): a young, brash skilled adventurer. Salvaging equipment and exploration are his lifeblood. A polarizing figure among fellow adventurers. Quite persuasive and charismatic when he wants to be. Stubborn to a fault. Well integrated psychologically.
            - Relationships:
            - Likenesses:
                - Combat: Crono (Chrono Trigger), Red Monika (Battle Chasers)
        - [Phaidros](Characters%206c458aea434e4c48a1777cf02b99de58/Phaidros,%20Second%20Gnosis%202cc68260550e46b5a9ca7e04e73007be.md): a middle-aged, aggressive scientist. Close friends with Vaughn’s parents until their deaths. Despises the government and typically hostile to authority. Highly intelligent, but temperamental and standoffish.
            - Relationships:
                - Cyrus: a scientist and an engineer. Seeks to foster dislike of the government within him.
                - Vaughn: views his as a surrogate son.
            - Likenesses:
                - Personality: Prof (The Reckoners), Auron (FFX)
                - Looks: Prof (The Reckoners)
                - Combat: Gilly (Battle Chasers)
        - [Paidi](Characters%206c458aea434e4c48a1777cf02b99de58/Paidi,%20the%20Mystic%20785bf7fc1ef745cca31a8025479ae872.md): a bawdy monk hailing from a village of her ilk. She meditates and drinks in equal proportion. Excessively flirtatious as a result of her sheltered upbringing. Unconsciously desires love from an older man.
            - Relationships:
            - Likenesses:
                - Personality: [Leone (Akame ga Kill](https://akamegakill.fandom.com/wiki/Leone)), Rikku (FFX)
                - Looks:  [Leone (Akame ga Kill](https://akamegakill.fandom.com/wiki/Leone))
        - [Lione](Characters%206c458aea434e4c48a1777cf02b99de58/Lione,%20the%20Changeling%20f19bb71a6eb74a4693018d916be0a2b2.md): a teenager who was abducted by the Collective and subjected to extensive experimentation. As a result, she is capable of both conducting exousia (a living ampoule) and can change the properties of her soul, resulting in an unstable personality. Generally hot-tempered, defiant, and [likes to disagree for the sake of it]. Unconsciously longs for a family.
            - Relationships:
            - Likenesses:
                - Looks: Emma (Promised Neverland)
                - Combat: Kimahri (FFX), Zidane (FFIX)
        - [Adam](Characters%206c458aea434e4c48a1777cf02b99de58/Adam,%20the%20Supreme%2072b863fd3cb8474e81009a73afd5e86e.md): the son of a member of Kuklos’ Parliament and high-ranking Collective member. For most of the game, he serves as a secondary antagonist, but can be recruited if he can be persuaded. Prideful, snide, and competent. Unconsciously desires the approval of his father.
            - Relationships:
            - Likenesses:
                - Personality: [Akechi (P5R](https://megamitensei.fandom.com/wiki/Goro_Akechi))
                - Combat: Magus (Chrono Trigger)
        - [Euphen](Characters%206c458aea434e4c48a1777cf02b99de58/Euphen,%20the%20Wanderer%20feb435ac4a914d89897032df7aad3288.md): a reality-hopping man unchained from reality and thus with no place in any world. Good-natured and insatiably curious, but is also detached from the outcome of the quest. Hides cynical perspectives about the shortcomings of people. Unconsciously longs for a place to truly call home.
            - Likenesses:
                - Looks: Ifan (Divinity: Original Sin 2)
        - [Chiranjeevi](Characters%206c458aea434e4c48a1777cf02b99de58/Chiranjeevi,%20the%20Outsider%2038de32ba16df49139d9cd6ab000854eb.md): an elder of the Outsider tribe who swears a patient vengeance against the Collective. Wishes for his people to be freed from their tyranny, yet unshackled by the contempt for Kuklos residents common to his people. Unconsciously guilty for killing his childhood friend. Enlightened and otherwise psychologically well-integrated.
            - Relationships:
            - Likenesses:
                - Personality: Amarant (FFIX), Garrison (Battle Chasers)
        - [Sophia](Characters%206c458aea434e4c48a1777cf02b99de58/Sophia,%20the%20Assassin%2083177f0c866148048e0c541b3cb90ef5.md): a runic builder who organized Cyrus’ team in the past and was also preserved as part of the Disruption. Was frozen farther from the center of the bubble, and thus was released two years earlier. Has since become an assassin and cleaner for the Collective. Too stubborn for suicide, but is otherwise hopeless. Has no faith in the cause of the Collective, but lacks an alternative plan for improvement. Cold, cynical, capable and ruthlessly pragmatic. Unconsciously longs to have a team and more specifically a man to lean on.
            - Relationships:
            - Likenesses:
                - Personality: Freya (FFIX)
                - Combat: Freya (FFIX)
                - Looks: Freide (Dark Souls 3)
    - Background
        - Saragossa (Kyanos): A famous fabricator of Devices during the Pre-Disruption. Possessed an usual affinity and preference for Chiseling, the art of stone manipulation. Disintegrating Doors, Dynamic Bridges, and Sandshields are some of his most notable accomplishments.
        - [Kadmos](Characters%206c458aea434e4c48a1777cf02b99de58/Kadmos%2094dbb23b22864ce1925bbd0d9f92b6ce.md): the inventor of ampoules, born during the Disruption
- Locations
    - [Kyanos](Worldbuilding%20af7a4b31ec684e5e8bd4d886b4f02409/Locations%2071d7535b7f524b8f94b30cf08f8b5c75/Kyano%CC%81s%205690e21fb2144bbda2465317575f9fb1.md)
        
        
         A center of commerce, innovation, and trade located in a vast desert and next to a river. Characterized by its advanced technology and cutting edge use of runes.
        
    - [Giant’s Teeth](Worldbuilding%20af7a4b31ec684e5e8bd4d886b4f02409/Locations%2071d7535b7f524b8f94b30cf08f8b5c75/The%20Giant%E2%80%99s%20Teeth%2085d785a62a6c46f3890b5c364a46bb75.md)
        
        
        A large mountain range northwest of Kyanos. The source of the river that led to the creation of Kyanos.
        
    - [Kuklos Anankes](Worldbuilding%20af7a4b31ec684e5e8bd4d886b4f02409/Locations%2071d7535b7f524b8f94b30cf08f8b5c75/Kuklos%20Anankes%20fab30a769efd40e1ae183903c8d601cb.md)
        
        
        The main setting of the story. Following the Disruption, Kyanos is renamed to Kuklos Anankes, commonly called “Kuklos”.
        
    - [The Unknown](Worldbuilding%20af7a4b31ec684e5e8bd4d886b4f02409/Locations%2071d7535b7f524b8f94b30cf08f8b5c75/The%20Unknown%20ebd6d418d13a45d0a76ec6f6c7852eda.md)
        
        
        The region beyond Kuklos in all directions. Layered by the ripple effect of the Disruption.
        
- Factions
    - [The Collective](Worldbuilding%20af7a4b31ec684e5e8bd4d886b4f02409/Factions%20432c601a348542f7acd8b40933446729/The%20Collective%20ce0a18857587471ab066d74bc3ec2f3d.md)
        
        
        A conglomerate of political leaders and prominent social figures seeking to become Principalities.
        
    - [The Union](Worldbuilding%20af7a4b31ec684e5e8bd4d886b4f02409/Factions%20432c601a348542f7acd8b40933446729/The%20Union%207f4103fb885a4d78868008897cfd7eb4.md)
        
        
        The openly-operating, standing government of Kuklos Anankes.
        
    - [The Vanar](Worldbuilding%20af7a4b31ec684e5e8bd4d886b4f02409/Factions%20432c601a348542f7acd8b40933446729/The%20Vanarites%2097b6f12b989646029d3091e6365aa662.md)
        
        
        A society of humans who have settled in the Valley. Called “The Outsiders” by residents of Kuklos Anankes, whom they call “Dwellers.” Aligned with the Principality of Adaptability.
        
    - [The Order of Pious Sun](Worldbuilding%20af7a4b31ec684e5e8bd4d886b4f02409/Factions%20432c601a348542f7acd8b40933446729/The%20Order%20of%20Pious%20Sun%20#WIP%2069a06a9c90154df98e9d2658d1c1dabd.md)
        
        
        One of many religious orders from old Kyanosian culture. Scapegoated and driven from the Kuklos Anankes over two centuries ago.
        

---

[Liz’s Question](Glossary%20bd471cf446244dddbf856d8dac59fa71/Liz%E2%80%99s%20Question%203fb77ead7edf423595f4a385c8c08fdd.md)