# Story

[Script](Story%20a8b5e97e6cef4555b141e48035b96cdc/Script%20ed1906f5cffb4b4abbf59ec27fae52fd.md)

[Outline](Story%20a8b5e97e6cef4555b141e48035b96cdc/Outline%20ba8c921138234b9f8c56d3159c05707c.md)

Reference points:

- Attack on Titan
- Made in Abyss

Cyrus is a runic builder (a combination of mechanical and software engineer) living in a hyper-advanced desert paradise. Following a scheduling mistake, he is caught in a temporal distortion ceremony that projects the elders, aspiring to be the new pantheon, into the future where the next selection process shall occur.

Cyrus awakens in the same room, now degraded and overgrown with vines and foliage. He awakens at the same time as a few of the other elders, and he is immediately taken into captivity (he can escape with proper action). He is deemed to be a threat, and is slated to be executed until he is spoken for by Sophia, whom he does not recognize, and then further blessed by one of the Aeons, an impossibly rare event. Unknown to him, his exposure to the Time

He is dragged out into the Forest and tested for susceptibility to the Plague, which we learn subsumes individual will and causes insanity and return to bestial nature.

Cyrus is not immune to the effects of the Forest, so while he learns some basic combat, he is thoroughly rattled by the experience. The outsiders are also mentioned in passing. When Cyrus is returned to the city, he is released.

Starting now, Cyrus can decide at any point to return to the City Center, the Ennoia district, and concede to the Collective. He will first have to face his party members, who will have varying degrees of compunction with this course of action. If he proceeds with concession, he will have to face them in combat. Then, the player will be treated to a series of cutscenes depicting Cyrus witnessing the Collective attempting their Ascension Ceremony. If Cyrus draws his weapon at any point during this, a series of difficult battles will be initiated. If Cyrus fails at any point, then the conditions for a game over have been met, as Cyrus has defied the will of his patron and failed. If he succeeds, Cyrus must know the conditions for a viable Ascension (#WIP), otherwise this is a game over. If he does, then the secret ending has been reached, and Cyrus ascends to stand among the Avatars, supplanting his master to become the Avatar of Will. If Cyrus does not draw his weapon and the Ascension Ceremony proceeds, then the Dominus ascends to stand among the Avatars, and the player’s save file is deleted.

He now has two goals: to return to the city’s center where he awoke, and to escape the Forest. He explores the nearby district of Anthropos, wherein he encounters a weapon forger, an academy, and the guild hall for Venturers. Initially, Cyrus intends to leverage his skills as a Runic Builder, but discovers that the magic has been lost and no longer works. He discovers that objects that leverage the power now require objects called “ampoules”, which are charged by spending time out in the Forest. He resolves to become a Venturer and goes to the guild hall, where he meets two rather unusual-looking men: Vaughn and Phaidros. After some discussion, they allow him to accompany him on their next excursion, should he choose to join them.

After a few successful excursions, Cyrus is abducted by agents of the Collective and meets Adam, who sinisterly threatens him with death if he continues to attempt to leave the city.

Game play mechanics to be explained:

- Respawning and game overs: framed as visions of a failed future. If the party is defeated without Cyrus, then the game over condition is met. Otherwise, they will be returned to the last checkpoint (tentatively, Charis of Sophia).
- Turn based
- Side quests

Things to account for:

- Coherence: gameplay and story should align thematically
- Speed-running
- Strategy and customization
- New Game Plus: Cyrus becomes a regressor. New dialog and options become available, as Cyrus has already lived this life.

Endings are projected for the game:

1. Cyrus departs into the fog.
2. Cyrus confronts the Collective in their Citadel.
3. Cyrus succumbs to the madness.
4. Cyrus concedes to the Collective.

[An Ending #WIP](Story%20a8b5e97e6cef4555b141e48035b96cdc/An%20Ending%20#WIP%200319b41cda9142d2a363eccce2043dd3.md)