# Themes #WIP

[The Meaning of Disruption](Themes%20#WIP%2070201c229d0c450f9f66bd9321c908b6/The%20Meaning%20of%20Disruption%20fcbd151f23d1456a98258abd67306535.md)

- Fear of the unknown
- Collective vs independence
- The Hero’s Journey
- “The Greater Good”
- Slavery vs. Freedom
- Environment
- Alchemy
- Virtue Ethics
- The Common vs. the Elite
- Tradition vs. Progression
- Chaos vs. Order
- The nature of violence
- Stand on your own principles
- Keep moving forward

Disruption is an exploration of what it means to be a stranger in a strange land, the perils of corruption and collectivism, and bravely confronting the threat of the unknown. Collaboration versus consensus should also be explored. Ideally, the main characters should feel somehow Randian, if slightly deconstructed, and contend with powers beyond human understanding.

One of the major themes is balance—risk and reward. Venturing out into the Unknown is challenging and risks inducing insanity within the exploration party. However, it also charges their magic and provides money. Staying in the base allows for expansion and development of tools, but time passes more quickly, allowing for progress of the Collective’s plan (time dilation?), and decreasing the party’s resistance to the insanity. This hearkens back to Dune and Brave New World, wherein some humans can be pacified with sufficient pleasure, but it comes at a cost and will ultimately kill them in the long run. It is a question of comfort vs adventure, tyrannical order opposed to the painstaking transmutation of chaos into order.

The passage of time is another significant theme. This is demonstrated by the motif of the circle—the area of safety, the ringed city, and the cyclical ages.

Trust is another major theme—explored through Cyrus, Kai, and Phe.

In the context of it being a video game, another theme that Disruption seeks to explore is free will—choice and the will of an individual. Cyrus seeks to change the world, serving as the Fourth Man

Tradition vs. Progression

Unlike many other modern games, Disruption should be an outright rejection of new staples of the culture war. 

---

Other notes: