# Exousia #WIP

[Devices](Exousia%20#WIP%20b40a09035f7d4d2e93c9560be6706010/Devices%20fc32df003e8a4ea8a0d1cdc909c14aca.md)

[Brainstorm](Exousia%20#WIP%20b40a09035f7d4d2e93c9560be6706010/Brainstorm%20f8d03eeacdae4ec68fc4d9d724e86e70.md)

Pure power.

Investiture.

Electricity.

Movement.

The image of creation.

Impetus.

Vital force.

Found naturally in nature, can also be acquired by voluntary amassment of humans. A toxic form can be extracted against one’s will.

---

- Exousia has different properties, based on the sapience, vitality, sex, and race of human. Some are harmonious, some are not. Land also harbors its own latent exousia depending on its occupants.
- Exousia is harnassable and usable.
- Exousia disperses over time.
- The soul generates Exousia. Each soul is formed from the Exousia of its parents’.
- Animals don’t have souls and are considered part of the land.
- Sex offsets a waveform. Male is sine and female is cosine.

---

Different creatures possess different frequencies of Exousia.

The soul emits Exousia in a sine wave according to a function including the following features:

- Amplitude: representative of the degree of thought. Smarter creatures have a higher amplitude.
- Frequency: representative of the degree of vitality. A hearty constitution and/or energetic affect causes one to pulse more frequently.
- Rotation: orientation (about the Z axis) with one of the core principles, known as principalities. Each race began as the offspring of the core principalities, and members of a given race are strongly inclined to align with that principality.

---

Forms:

- Primal: the channeling and controlling of primal forces. Based on one’s nature.
    - Light: heals, restores something to match its’ internally-identified form.
- Imbuing: the practice of breaking small pieces of one’s soul off and inserting them into conductive matter to effect the world. Can be used to create magical machinery.
- Shaping: also called “Vanarism”, the reshaping of the body at will.
    - With this and proper biological knowledge, one would be able to achieve immortality.
    - Metallic transformations (carbon structures, a la FMA’s Greed) are possible, but very difficult to achieve.
- Blooming: to proliferate life, itself. Causes plants to grow, muscles to develop, cells to multiply. Associated with the principality “Potency”.