# The Vanarites

A society of humans who have settled in the Valley. Called “The Outsiders” by residents of Kuklos Anankes, whom they call “Dwellers.” Aligned with the Principality of Adaptability.

 Characterized by the ability to alter their body’s composition and arrangement at will. Prior to the Disruption, they were a hunter-gatherer tribe hailing from the north. They have been systematically hunted and abducted by the Collective. This has led to a proliferation of nihilism within the community—they have tried and cannot escape, and they cannot effectively fight back against the Collective, who have been kidnapping them for experimentation for many generations. Even so, there are three major factions: run, hide, and fight. The majority of the group has become pacifistic—aggression is highly stigmatized. They do not recognize a distinction between the residents of Kuklos Anankes—the “Dwellers”, short for “Those Who Dwell in the City”—and the Collective. As such, they regard all other peoples as hostile, except the monks.

They are organized into a primitive parliament, with Elders and advisors serving to vote on matters of policy, alongside a Prime and Sub Minister.

When near death, they venture out into the Graveyard to fight against the mistial creatures there. Those who have gone to the Graveyard are called Vetala.

In their efforts to hide from the Collective, they have retrieved metal from the quarry and smelted it into picks, then mined out a complex network of caves from the mountain nearest their village. They refer to this network of caves as the Seed, as it contains their last hope.

Because their Principality is more closely associated with Potency, the Vanar can traverse the Forest with relatively-few side effects. Any excess growth is mitigated by their power.

- Outsiders: minimal clothing, Indian, tribal.

They have storehouses of knowledge written on Vellum buried deep into their cave network.

History:

- Originally hail from a far-Northern country known as Gandharva.
    - Gandharvites [natively developed white hair and black skin, like polar bears.](https://polarbearsinternational.org/news-media/articles/why-polar-bears-have-black-skin)
- Gandharvites are capable of making minor modifications to their bodies, but they tend to be painful and painstaking via Shaping (called “Gandharvism”).
- One millennium ago, they scouted much of the surrounding land and discovered the [Giant’s Teeth](../Locations%2071d7535b7f524b8f94b30cf08f8b5c75/The%20Giant%E2%80%99s%20Teeth%2085d785a62a6c46f3890b5c364a46bb75.md).
- Following a tribal schism, a large group—calling themselves the Giri—migrated downward to occupy the mountains.
- 200 PrD: There is some conflict, but eventually the Giri develop relations with the Kyanosites.
- 100 PrD: The Giri proliferate, establishing settlements down in the Hills near the mountains.
- 0 PD: [The Disruption](../Events%20&%20Timeline%20404ad6ccc7a04f5096e8b2cef3bbc29b/The%20Disruption%20#WIP%201ca3b38f76bb4412a094ce216c73bff8.md) occurs. The conflux of vitality and shaping caused the birth of the ability to freely shape their own bodies. They recognize their power comes from the Forest, which leads them to rechristen themselves “Vanarites”, their primary settlement “Vanar”, and their power “Vanarism”.
- 23 PD: The Collective succeeds in consolidating power, and begins producing propaganda to ostracize the Vanar, accusing them of kidnapping (which is actually done by the Collective).
- 28 PD: A band of adventurers raid the Hills, killing 30% of the population.

---

Sources:

- **Giri**: Sometimes used to refer to mountains or mountain gods in Hindu literature. Mountains are often considered sacred places where gods reside or perform significant activities.
- **Gandharva**
    - **Description**: Gandharvas are celestial musicians and singers who live in the heavenly realms. They are often depicted as divine beings with a keen sense of music and dance.
    - **Notable Figures**: Chitrasena is a prominent Gandharva who appears in the *Mahabharata*. Gandharvas are known for their harmonious presence and their role in celestial gatherings.
- [Vanara](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Vanara)
- HxH’s NGL, the Chimera Ant base